---
# output: github_document
output: html_document
---

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

```{r, echo = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  collapse = TRUE,
  comment = "#>",
  fig.path = "README-"
)
# Please put your title here to include it in the file below.
Title <- "Environmental conditions shape the global distribution of ant sociality"
```

## Research Article

This repository contains the code and data used to carry out analyses for this research article:

__Pérochon et al., 2025 - Environmental conditions shape the global distribution of ant sociality. in prep.__ 


Sociality is one of the most successful evolutionary strategies in animals, yet its ecological drivers remain poorly understood. Ants, with their extraordinary diversity of social organizations, offer a unique opportunity to explore how sociality relates to the environment. By combining a global database of social traits for over 3,000 species with environmental data, we show that distinct compositions of social traits recur across continents under similar ecological conditions. These global parallels reveal that environmental factors shape the distribution of ant sociality, making it a key dimension of ecological adaptation.


## Contents


 - [:file\_folder: **functions**](functions/) directory contains homemade functions used in the analyses.
 
 - [:file\_folder: **input_files**](input_data/) directory contains the raw and curated data used in the analyses.  
  
 - [:file\_folder: **obj_for_figures**](obj_for_figures/) directory contains additional files and images that are used to produce figures.
 
 - [:file\_folder: **outputs**](outputs/) directory contains all files generated by the scripts.

 - [:file\_folder: **scripts**](scripts/) directory contains the scripts used to run the analyses. Scripts are ordered such as one can generate the study outputs by running scripts in the provided order. 
 

## How to run it

This research has been developed using the statistical programming
language R. To run the analyses, you will need
installed on your computer the [R software](https://cloud.r-project.org/)
itself and optionally [RStudio Desktop](https://rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).

You can download the entire project as a `.zip` from [this URL](https://github.com/EddiePerochon/Ant_Sociality_Env/zipball/master/). After unzipping:

  - Run sequentially the scripts found in the [:file\_folder: **scripts**](scripts/) folder. It will rebuild the output and figures, including the final ones presented in the main text of the article.

## How to cite

Please cite this research article as:
  
> Pérochon, E., Guénard, B., Gippet, J., Klaftenberger, K., Ollier, S., & Bertelsmeier, C. (2025). Environmental conditions shape the global distribution of ant sociality, in prep.



